# drresearch
Data Recovery Research Tools
A collection of tools to generate patterns, manage XOR files, analyze dumps, visualize things to help for data recovery

## List of the tools

### XOR Patcher
The XOR Patcher takes a dump file and replaces parts of it into other parts of it. Parts are e.g. ECC, DATA, SA
How to use the tool


### Patterning tool
The initpattern tools are filling a physical disk or dump file with a special pattern to help analyzing XOR key, ECC, FTL.
**BE VERY CAREFUL TO NOT RUN IT ON THE WRONG DISK! THIS COULD DELETE ALL YOUR DATA!**
Linux
```
perl initpattern.pl /dev/sdX
perl initpattern.pl dumpfile.dmp 1000   
```
The first command overwrites the physical disk sdX with the pattern (replace sdX with the disk. To get a list of all your disks you can use ```lsblk``` or ```fdisk -l``` The second command 
Windows
```
initpattern.exe
initpattern.exe \\.\PhysicalDrive9
```
**BE VERY CAREFUL TO NOT RUN IT ON THE WRONG DISK! THIS COULD DELETE ALL YOUR DATA!**




### XOR Stat tool
The XOR stat tool analyzes a complete dump file and searches for the patterns that were generated by the patterning tools above.
It will generate lots of statistics you can look at later.
For the XOR stat tool to work, the filename of the dump file MUST contain the pagesize, like e.g. Pendrive(13016b).dmp
When you run the XOR tool without any parameters it will analyze all the .dmp files in the current directory.
To analyze a specific command run>
```
perl xorstat.pl Pendrive(13016b).dmp
```
Afterwards a file Pendrive(13016b).dmp.html is generated and you can open that in your favourite browser.


### LFSR Based XOR key Generator
The LFSR based xor key generator enables one to generate LFSR xor patterns. Which can primarily be generated as a file of defined size with regards
to assigned block size and page size. The same file can be simply pasted in a solid state pendrive/sd card etc.
After dumping the chip one can look for areas that 'may'contain the generated xor key and take extract that block only to re xor it with the generated file
to extract xor key of the controller.

